Initial version (#1)
KohlsTechnology/hierarchy: README.md

# Hierarchy

[![Build Status](https://travis-ci.com/KohlsTechnology/prometheus_bigquery_remote_storage_adapter.svg?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.com/KohlsTechnology/hierarcbhy)
[![Go Report Card](https://goreportcard.com/badge/github.com/KohlsTechnology/prometheus_bigquery_remote_storage_adapter)](https://goreportcard.com/report/github.com/KohlsTechnology/hierarcbhy)

Hierarchy is a simple utility to merge a set of yaml or json files, based on a defined hierarchy. It is inspired by Hiera from Puppet.

## Installation

> You can either download the binary file from the GitHub releases or [compile from source](#compiling-from-source).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can either download a binary file from GitHub releases or [compile from source](#compiling-from-source).
```

## Documentation

> The main goal of `hierarchy` is to allow the deduplication of configuration data and allow for a fine grained control over your GitOps process. GitOps tools, like [Eunomia](https://github.com/KohlsTechnology/eunomia), can use it to generate a `values.yml` file that is then being used by [Helm](https://helm.sh) or similar tools.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The main goal of `hierarchy` is to prevent the configuration data duplication and allow for a fine-grained control over the GitOps process. The output YAML can be used to generate a `values.yml` file for GitOps tools, like [Eunomia](https://github.com/KohlsTechnology/eunomia), [Helm](https://helm.sh), and others.
```

### Usage

```
./hierarchy -h
usage: hierarchy [<flags>]

Hierarchy

Flags:
  -h, --help                    Show context-sensitive help (also try --help-long and --help-man).
  -f, --file="./hierarchy.lst"  Path and name of the hierarchy file.
  -o, --output="./output.yaml"  Path and name of the output file.
  -i, --filter="(.yaml|.yml|.json)$"
                                Regex for file extension of files being merged
      --trace                   Prints a diff after processing each file. This generates A LOT of output
  -m, --failmissing             Fail if a directory in the hierarchy is missing
  -V, --version                 Print version and build information, then exit
  -d, --debug                   Print debug output

```

### Merging

> Hierarchy does a deep merge on the yaml structure, with the exception of lists. Lists will be completely overwritten, so choose wisely where to use them.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `hierarchy` utility processes the YAML structure as a deep merge, with the exception of lists. Lists are completely overwritten, and therefore, it is important to keep that in mind when using them.
```

### Hierarchy

> The hierarchy is defined in the file `hierarchy.lst`. This is a simple text file that lists one include folder per line and supports comments prefixed with `#`. The directories listed can be relative or absolute (try to avoid) paths. You can have directories included that are higher or lower in the structure. You have complete control. You can look at examples [here](https://github.com/KohlsTechnology/hierarchy/blob/master/testdata/).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The hierarchy is defined in the file `hierarchy.lst`. This is a simple text file that lists one include folder per line and supports comments prefixed with `#`. The directories listed can be relative or absolute (try to avoid) paths. You can have directories included that are higher or lower in the structure to control their precedence. You can look at examples [here](https://github.com/KohlsTechnology/hierarchy/blob/master/testdata/).
```

#### Example content
```

> ../defaults    #this is first ... lowest priority
> ../marketing   #this is second
> ../development #this is third ... highest priority

Reviewer: ```suggestion
../defaults    #this is the first ... lowest priority
../marketing   #this is the second
../development #this is the third ... highest priority
```

```

> In this case it will load all yaml files from ../defaults, then merge it with everything in ../marketing, and lastly merges it with everything in ../development. You can also use the relative path ./, which means it'll also load the variables defined in contextDir directly (same folder that as hierarchy.lst). You can insert ./ in whatever order you want in the hierarchy.lst - it will determine its priority.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this case, it will load all yaml files from `../defaults`, then merge it with everything in `../marketing`, and lastly merge it with everything in `../development`. You can also use the relative path `./`, which means that it will also load variables defined in contextDir directly (same folder level as `hierarchy.lst`). You can insert `./` in any desired order in the `hierarchy.lst`, thus determining its priority.
```

# Hierarchy

> [![Build Status](https://travis-ci.com/KohlsTechnology/prometheus_bigquery_remote_storage_adapter.svg?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.com/KohlsTechnology/hierarcbhy)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
[![Build Status](https://travis-ci.com/KohlsTechnology/prometheus_bigquery_remote_storage_adapter.svg?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.com/KohlsTechnology/hierarchy)
```

> [![Go Report Card](https://goreportcard.com/badge/github.com/KohlsTechnology/prometheus_bigquery_remote_storage_adapter)](https://goreportcard.com/report/github.com/KohlsTechnology/hierarcbhy)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
[![Go Report Card](https://goreportcard.com/badge/github.com/KohlsTechnology/prometheus_bigquery_remote_storage_adapter)](https://goreportcard.com/report/github.com/KohlsTechnology/hierarchy)
```

Hierarchy is a simple utility to merge a set of yaml or json files, based on a defined hierarchy. It is inspired by Hiera from Puppet.

## Installation

> You can either download a binary file from GitHub releases or [compile from source](#compiling-from-source).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You can either download a binary file from GitHub releases or [compile from source](#compiling-from-source).
Note: `vendor/` files are intentionally included in GitHub repo to ensure deprecation of dependent packages do not cause service to break.
```

## Documentation

> The main goal of `hierarchy` is to prevent the configuration data duplication and allow for a fine-grained control over the GitOps process. The output YAML can be used to generate a `values.yml` file for GitOps tools, like [Eunomia](https://github.com/KohlsTechnology/eunomia), [Helm](https://helm.sh), and others.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The main goal of `Hierarchy` is to prevent the duplication of configuration data and allow for fine-grained control over the GitOps process. The output YAML can be used to generate a `values.yml` file for GitOps tools, like [Eunomia](https://github.com/KohlsTechnology/eunomia), [Helm](https://helm.sh), and others.
```

### Usage

> You can control the behavior of Hierarchy either through command line options or environment variables. The later is especially helpful if you're running it inside a container.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can control the behavior of Hierarchy either through command line options or environment variables. The latter is especially helpful if you are running it inside a container.
```

| Command Line Flag | Environment Variable | Default | Description |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| `-f, --file` | `HIERARCHY_FILE` | `./hierarchy.lst` | Path and name of the hierarchy file. |
| `-o, --output` | `HIERARCHY_OUTPUT` | `./output.yaml` | Path and name of the output file. |

> | `-i, --filter` | `HIERARCHY_FILTER` | `(.yaml|.yml|.json)$` | Regex for file extension of files being merged |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| `-i, --filter` | `HIERARCHY_FILTER` | `(.yaml|.yml|.json)$` | Regex for allowed file extension(s) of files being merged. |
```

> | `-m, --failmissing` | `HIERARCHY_FAILMISSING` | `false` | Fail if a directory in the hierarchy is missing |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| `-m, --failmissing` | `HIERARCHY_FAILMISSING` | `false` | Fail if a directory in the hierarchy is missing. |
```

Reviewer 2: Also, I would think we should default this to true, but I may be missing something

> | `-d, --debug` | `HIERARCHY_DEBUG` | `false` | Print debug output |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| `-d, --debug` | `HIERARCHY_DEBUG` | `false` | Print debug output. |
```

> | `--trace` | `HIERARCHY_TRACE` | `false` | Prints a diff after processing each file. This generates A LOT of output |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| `--trace` | `HIERARCHY_TRACE` | `false` | Prints a diff after processing each file. This generates A LOT of output. |
```

> | `-V, --version` | | | Print version and build information, then exit |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| `-V, --version` | | | Print version and build information, then exit. |
```

### Merging

> The `hierarchy` utility processes the YAML structure as a deep merge, with the exception of lists. Lists are completely overwritten, and therefore, it is important to keep that in mind when using them.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The `Hierarchy` utility processes the YAML structure as a deep merge, with the exception of lists. Lists are completely overwritten; therefore, it is important to keep that in mind when using them.
```

### Hierarchy

The hierarchy is defined in the file `hierarchy.lst`. This is a simple text file that lists one include folder per line and supports comments prefixed with `#`. The directories listed can be relative or absolute (try to avoid) paths. You can have directories included that are higher or lower in the structure to control their precedence. You can look at examples [here](https://github.com/KohlsTechnology/hierarchy/blob/master/testdata/).

#### Example content
```
../defaults    #this is the first ... lowest priority
../marketing   #this is the second
../development #this is the third ... highest priority
```

> In this case, it will load all yaml files from `../defaults`, then merge it with everything in `../marketing`, and lastly merge it with everything in `../development`. You can also use the relative path `./`, which means that it will also load variables defined in contextDir directly (same folder level as `hierarchy.lst`). You can insert `./` in any desired order in the `hierarchy.lst`, thus determining its priority.

Reviewer 2: Phasing here could be improved, would like perhaps Anna or Carolyn's opinion on how to phrase better

#### Example

> Let's assume you have multiple applications that get deployed over different cloud providers. This application also has development, QA, and production environments. You can decide in whichever priority (order) the configuration files are merged.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Let's assume you have multiple applications that get deployed to different cloud providers. This application also has development, QA, and production environments. You can specify the exact priority (order) the configuration files are merged.
```

```
defaults             # all applications will have this

> └── cloud            # settings specific to a cloud

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
└── cloud            # settings specific to a cloud provider
```

  └── environment    # settings specific to the environment level (e.g. development or production)
    └── application  # settings specific to an application
```

> In order to generate the final configuration for an application running in the development environment on cloud A, the `hierarchy.lst` could look like the below example.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In order to generate the final configuration for an application running in the development environment on "cloud A", the `hierarchy.lst` could look like the below example.
```

```
# Hierarchy file for application "demo" running in "cloud A".
# location `..../applications/demo/dev/clouda1.hierarchy.lst
../../defaults
../clouds/A
./environments/dev
./
```

### Environment variables in the hierarchy

> Hierarchy allows the use of operating system environment variables to make it even more flexible. The variables must be in the format `${NAME}`, only consist of letters, numbers, and underscores, and must start with a letter. The environment variable names will be converted to upper case to avoid ambiguity. If an environment variable is not found, the program will error out to avoid generating the wrong data.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Hierarchy allows the use of environment variables to make it even more flexible. The variables must: be in the format `${NAME}`, only consist of letters, numbers, and underscores, and start with a letter. The environment variable names will be converted to upper case to avoid ambiguity. If an environment variable is not found, the program will error out to avoid generating the wrong data.
```
